Welcome back.
In this video will continue to improve the scatterplot we made in the last video by adding the title
axes and grid lines.
Let's review what we've done so far in the last video.
We made a scatterplot to visualize birth data from different countries in 2011.
Here are some links to the code where we left it off.
We know what's being visualized because we wrote the code.
But imagine if you shared this scatterplot with a friend of yours.
They'd have no idea what the data is supposed to represent.
There are no labels no axes there's no information of any kind on the page about what exactly we're
looking at.
Let's fix that.
The first thing we'll do is create some axes graph axes are a difficult thing to draw on your own.
You need to draw the line representing the axis along with tick marks and text labels for each tick
mark.
Doing all this from scratch can be quite an ordeal.
Fortunately D-3 has methods that will take care of all of this busywork for you.
There are four methods D-3 uses to create axes axes top axis right axis bottom and axes left.
All of these methods taken a scale and return a function that can generate an axis in SVGA.
The method we choose determines where the text labels will sit relative to the axis but to whip up a
quick x axis using D-3 got access.
Bottom pasand the scale that we created in the previous video this pattern is fairly typical.
In order to get the axis to show up we need to call the axis function we've created on a D-3 selection
cool.
There's our axis if we inspect it using the elements tab we can see that there's a fair amount going
on our access is inside of a group that we depended.
It's got a path consisting of the main axis line along with tick marks on either side.
Inside of each one of these groups we've got a line from a tick mark along with the text label.
The position of our axis is a little less than ideal by default D-3 appends axes starting from the origin
of the SVGA that is the upper left corner.
If we want the axis somewhere else we need to move it ourselves.
Let's do that now by setting the transform attribute on the group with the appended
nice.
Let's repeat this process for the y axis.
This time we'll use axes left instead of axis bottom
cool.
This is already looking much better.
If you'd like to add grid lines to improve the readability of your graph you can do that directly from
the axes.
The simplest thing to do is change the size of the ticks so that they stretch across the SPG.
The only catch is that the graph area takes padding into account.
So the length of the ticks shown to to adjust the length of the tit's we can use the tick size method
and passing the desired length the ticks will stretch in the direction of the axis label.
So for both of our axes we'll want our sizes to be negative.
The x axis this will stretch the ticks up.
We want the total size to be the negative value of the height plus twice the padding one on top and
one on bottom.
We'll take a very similar approach for the y axis.
Note that having the text size updates the length of the text with text labels and the text at either
end of the axes.
If you don't want to adjust the text on either end of the axes you can set their lengths separately
using the tick size outer method.
Here's what it looks like.
If we set the outer take size to zero
let's also adjust the styling of the grid lines.
Each grid line is inside of a group with the class tick.
So we'll select those Blyton the stroke color and make the lines dash using the stroke dash array property
the value for this property takes two numbers the length of the dash and the distance between dashes.
Let's finish things up by adding some labels to the axes and giving our graph a title D-3 doesn't provide
us with any secret sauce for adding these things.
To add these text labels we just need to go back to our D-3 fundamentals.
Select the SPG append the text element position correctly and set its inner text.
Here's how we can do that for the x axis label here we're positioning the text element so that it's
centered horizontally and vertically aligned with the x axis.
Then we're using the D-y attribute to push it down relative to the x axis.
Finally we're centering the text relative to its X attribute and setting the text inside of it.
We're not doing much else to style these elements.
Feel free to add some styling of your own either using the D-3 style method or Anisya file as you can
see it's kind of a tight squeeze and the label is getting cut off.
Let me give the visualization a little more padding.
Cool that's better.
Adding a title is very similar.
A bump up the text a bit but otherwise what we're doing should look very similar to what we just did.
All that's left now is the y axis.
This one is a little trickier because we need to rotate the text 90 degrees after the rotation we need
to be careful with the x and y attributes.
Since adjusting the X attribute will now move the text element in the vertical direction and adjusting
the Y attribute will move the element in the horizontal direction.
Getting the positioning right can take a bit of guess and check if you make a mistake.
Take a look at where the element wound up using the elements tab and adjust as necessary.
Eventually you should land on code that looks something like this.
It's definitely a lot clearer now what our graph is representing.
There are further enhancements we could make.
But we'll stop here for now.
Take a look at the exercises for some of these intermediate D-3 concepts.
In the next video we'll change gears a bit and talk about other Grath types but we'll come back to this
example soon enough.
I'll see you in the next video.